docs/template/migration-v2.mdx, before:

---
title: "V2 Migration Guide"
description: "How to migrate from the legacy template definition"
---

We've made ready for you three ways how to migrate existing template to the new definition format.

- Using the migration command (recommended)
- Using the `fromDockerfile()` method to parse existing Dockerfile
- Building the Docker image manually and using `fromImage()` method

## Migration Command (Recommended)

To migrate the existing template definition to the new format, follow these steps:

<Steps>
    <Step title="Install E2B CLI">
        Install the latest version of the [E2B CLI](https://e2b.dev/docs/cli)
    </Step>
    <Step title="Navigate to your template folder">
        Navigate to the folder of your existing template definition (where you have `e2b.toml` and `e2b.Dockerfile` files).
    </Step>
    <Step title="Run migration command">
    ```bash
    e2b template migrate
    ```
    </Step>
    <Step title="Follow the prompts">
        Follow the prompts to complete the migration process.
    </Step>
    <Step title="Done">
    </Step>
</Steps>

### Generated Output
The migration command generates three files (based on the selected language).


<CodeGroup>

```markdown JavaScript & TypeScript
template.ts - Template definition using the SDK
build.dev.ts - Development build script
build.prod.ts - Production build script
```

```markdown Python
template.py - Template definition using the SDK
build_dev.py - Development build script
build_prod.py - Production build script
```

</CodeGroup>


## Using `fromDockerfile()` Method

If you want to keep using Dockerfile for your template, you can use the `fromDockerfile()` method.
We'll automatically parse the Dockerfile for you and build the template based on it.
You can find more at [Base Image](/docs/template/base-image#parsing-existing-dockerfiles).

<CodeGroup>

```typescript JavaScript & TypeScript
// template.ts
import { Template } from "e2b";

const template = Template()
  .fromDockerfile(dockerfileContent);
```
```python Python
# template.py
from e2b import Template

template = (
    Template()
    .from_dockerfile(dockerfile_content)
)
```

</CodeGroup>

<Info>
    Only a limited set of instructions are supported and converted to equivalent template.

    Compatible instructions:

    `FROM`, `RUN`, `COPY`, `ADD`, `WORKDIR`, `USER`, `ENV`, `ARG`, `CMD`, `ENTRYPOINT`
</Info>

After the template definition, you can create the build scripts as described in the [Quickstart](/docs/template/quickstart#create-a-development-build-script) section.


## Using `fromImage()` Method

If you already have a Docker image built, or you want to keep building the Docker image yourself you can use the `fromImage()` method.
Simply build the Docker image for the `linux/amd64` platform, push it to a registry of your choice and reference the image tag in the `fromImage()` method.
You can also specify credentials for private registries as described in the [Base Image](/docs/template/base-image#custom-base-image) section.


<CodeGroup>

```typescript JavaScript & TypeScript
// template.ts
import { Template } from "e2b";

const template = Template()
  .fromImage("image-tag");
```
```python Python
# template.py
from e2b import Template

template = (
    Template()
    .from_image("image-tag")
)
```

</CodeGroup>

Commit message:

Default user and workdir docs (#24)

docs/template/migration-v2.mdx, after:

---
title: "V2 Migration Guide"
description: "How to migrate from the legacy template definition"
---

We've made ready for you three ways how to migrate existing template to the new definition format.

- Using the migration command (recommended)
- Using the `fromDockerfile()` method to parse existing Dockerfile
- Building the Docker image manually and using `fromImage()` method

<Warning>
    _This is handled for you automatically when using any of the options below._

    The default user for the template is `user` with the working directory set to the user home directory. This is a difference from the Docker defaults.
</Warning>

## Migration Command (Recommended)

To migrate the existing template definition to the new format, follow these steps:

<Steps>
    <Step title="Install E2B CLI">
        Install the latest version of the [E2B CLI](https://e2b.dev/docs/cli)
    </Step>
    <Step title="Navigate to your template folder">
        Navigate to the folder of your existing template definition (where you have `e2b.toml` and `e2b.Dockerfile` files).
    </Step>
    <Step title="Run migration command">
    ```bash
    e2b template migrate
    ```
    </Step>
    <Step title="Follow the prompts">
        Follow the prompts to complete the migration process.
    </Step>
    <Step title="Done">
    </Step>
</Steps>

### Generated Output
The migration command generates three files (based on the selected language).


<CodeGroup>

```markdown JavaScript & TypeScript
template.ts - Template definition using the SDK
build.dev.ts - Development build script
build.prod.ts - Production build script
```

```markdown Python
template.py - Template definition using the SDK
build_dev.py - Development build script
build_prod.py - Production build script
```

</CodeGroup>


## Using `fromDockerfile()` Method

If you want to keep using Dockerfile for your template, you can use the `fromDockerfile()` method.
We'll automatically parse the Dockerfile for you and build the template based on it.
You can find more at [Base Image](/docs/template/base-image#parsing-existing-dockerfiles).

<CodeGroup>

```typescript JavaScript & TypeScript
// template.ts
import { Template } from "e2b";

const template = Template()
  .fromDockerfile(dockerfileContent);
```
```python Python
# template.py
from e2b import Template

template = (
    Template()
    .from_dockerfile(dockerfile_content)
)
```

</CodeGroup>

<Info>
    Only a limited set of instructions are supported and converted to equivalent template.

    Compatible instructions:

    `FROM`, `RUN`, `COPY`, `ADD`, `WORKDIR`, `USER`, `ENV`, `ARG`, `CMD`, `ENTRYPOINT`
</Info>

After the template definition, you can create the build scripts as described in the [Quickstart](/docs/template/quickstart#create-a-development-build-script) section.


## Using `fromImage()` Method

If you already have a Docker image built, or you want to keep building the Docker image yourself you can use the `fromImage()` method.
Simply build the Docker image for the `linux/amd64` platform, push it to a registry of your choice and reference the image tag in the `fromImage()` method.
You can also specify credentials for private registries as described in the [Base Image](/docs/template/base-image#custom-base-image) section.


<CodeGroup>

```typescript JavaScript & TypeScript
// template.ts
import { Template } from "e2b";

const template = Template()
  .fromImage("image-tag");
```
```python Python
# template.py
from e2b import Template

template = (
    Template()
    .from_image("image-tag")
)
```

</CodeGroup>
