docs/sandbox/secured-access.mdx, before:

---
title: "Secured access"
sidebarTitle: Secured access
---

Secure access authenticates communication between SDK and sandbox controller.

Sandbox controller runs in sandbox itself and exposes APIs for work with file system, run command etc.
Without using secured access, anyone with sandbox ID can access the controller APIs and control the sandbox from inside.

<Note>
    SDKs version `v2.0.0` and above are using secure access by default when creating sandbox. This may not be compatible with older custom templates and you may need to rebuild them.
</Note>

## Migration path

When you are using custom templates created before envd `v0.2.0`, you need to rebuild the templates to enable secure access.
Temporary, you can disable secure access by setting `secure` to `false` during sandbox creation, but this is not recommended for production use as it opens up security risks.

## Supported versions

All sandboxes based on template with envd version at least `v0.2.0` already supports secure access without any additional changes.

Secured access flag was introduced in `1.5.0` for JavaScript and Python SDKs to be used optionally.
With SDKs version `v2.0.0` and above, sandboxes are created with secure access enabled by default.

## Access sandbox API directly

In some cases you may want to access sandbox controller APIs directly via its URL, for example when you are not using SDKs.
When secure access is enabled, you need to provide an authentication token that was returned during sandbox creation.

Each call to sandbox controller must include an additional header `X-Access-Token` with access token value returned during sandbox creation.

For sandbox [upload](/docs/filesystem/upload#upload-with-pre-signed-url) and [download](/docs/filesystem/download#download-with-pre-signed-url) URLs, you need to generate pre-signed URLs. We are advising to use SDK for generating presigned URLs.

## Disable secure access

Disabling secured access is not recommended as it opens up security risks.

<CodeGroup>
    ```js JavaScript & TypeScript
    import { Sandbox } from '@e2b/code-interpreter'

    const sandbox = await Sandbox.create({ secure: false }) // Explicitly disable
    ```

    ```python Python
    from e2b_code_interpreter import Sandbox

    sandbox = Sandbox.create(secure=False)  # Explicitly disable
    ```
</CodeGroup>

Commit message:

Mention where to find envd version

docs/sandbox/secured-access.mdx, after:

---
title: "Secured access"
sidebarTitle: Secured access
---

Secure access authenticates communication between SDK and sandbox controller.

Sandbox controller runs in sandbox itself and exposes APIs for work with file system, run command etc.
Without using secured access, anyone with sandbox ID can access the controller APIs and control the sandbox from inside.

<Note>
    SDKs version `v2.0.0` and above are using secure access by default when creating sandbox. This may not be compatible with older custom templates and you may need to rebuild them.
</Note>

## Migration path

When you are using custom templates created before envd `v0.2.0`, you need to rebuild the templates to enable secure access.
Temporary, you can disable secure access by setting `secure` to `false` during sandbox creation, but this is not recommended for production use as it opens up security risks.

You can check template envd version via `e2b template list` command or templates list in dashboard.

## Supported versions

All sandboxes based on template with envd version at least `v0.2.0` already supports secure access without any additional changes.

Secured access flag was introduced in `1.5.0` for JavaScript and Python SDKs to be used optionally.
With SDKs version `v2.0.0` and above, sandboxes are created with secure access enabled by default.

## Access sandbox API directly

In some cases you may want to access sandbox controller APIs directly via its URL, for example when you are not using SDKs.
When secure access is enabled, you need to provide an authentication token that was returned during sandbox creation.

Each call to sandbox controller must include an additional header `X-Access-Token` with access token value returned during sandbox creation.

For sandbox [upload](/docs/filesystem/upload#upload-with-pre-signed-url) and [download](/docs/filesystem/download#download-with-pre-signed-url) URLs, you need to generate pre-signed URLs. We are advising to use SDK for generating presigned URLs.

## Disable secure access

Disabling secured access is not recommended as it opens up security risks.

<CodeGroup>
    ```js JavaScript & TypeScript
    import { Sandbox } from '@e2b/code-interpreter'

    const sandbox = await Sandbox.create({ secure: false }) // Explicitly disable
    ```

    ```python Python
    from e2b_code_interpreter import Sandbox

    sandbox = Sandbox.create(secure=False)  # Explicitly disable
    ```
</CodeGroup>
