docs/template/examples/nextjs.mdx, before:

---
title: "Next.js App"
description: "Next.js web app running in the sandbox on start"
---

Basic Next.js app with Tailwind and shadcn UI

<CodeGroup>

```typescript JavaScript & TypeScript
// template.ts
import { Template, waitForPort } from 'e2b'

export const template = Template()
  .fromNodeImage('21-slim')
  .setWorkdir('/home/user/nextjs-app')
  .runCmd(
    'npx create-next-app@14.2.30 . --ts --tailwind --no-eslint --import-alias "@/*" --use-npm --no-app --no-src-dir'
  )
  .runCmd('npx shadcn@2.1.7 init -d')
  .runCmd('npx shadcn@2.1.7 add --all')
  .runCmd(
    'mv /home/user/nextjs-app/* /home/user/ && rm -rf /home/user/nextjs-app'
  )
  .setWorkdir('/home/user')
  .setStartCmd('npx next --turbo', waitForPort(3000))

```


```python Python
# template.py
from e2b import Template, wait_for_port

template = (
    Template()
    .from_node_image("21-slim")
    .set_workdir("/home/user/nextjs-app")
    .run_cmd(
        'npx create-next-app@14.2.30 . --ts --tailwind --no-eslint --import-alias "@/*" --use-npm --no-app --no-src-dir'
    )
    .run_cmd("npx shadcn@2.1.7 init -d")
    .run_cmd("npx shadcn@2.1.7 add --all")
    .run_cmd("mv /home/user/nextjs-app/* /home/user/ && rm -rf /home/user/nextjs-app")
    .set_workdir("/home/user")
    .set_start_cmd("npx next --turbo", wait_for_port(3000))
)
```

</CodeGroup>

<CodeGroup>

```typescript JavaScript & TypeScript
// build.ts
import { Template, defaultBuildLogger } from 'e2b'
import { template as nextJSTemplate } from './template'

Template.build(nextJSTemplate, {
  alias: 'nextjs-app',
  cpuCount: 1,
  memoryMB: 1024,
  onBuildLogs: defaultBuildLogger(),
})
```


```python Python
# build.py
from e2b import Template, default_build_logger
from .template import template as nextjsTemplate

Template.build(nextjsTemplate,
    alias="nextjs-app",
    cpu_count=4,
    memory_mb=4096,
    on_build_logs=default_build_logger(),
)
```

</CodeGroup>

Commit message:

Added Bun example using Build System 2.0 (#39)
* added Next.js Bun app guide

* updated formatting

* update code

docs/template/examples/nextjs.mdx, after:

---
title: "Next.js App"
description: "Next.js web app running in the sandbox using Node.js"
---

Basic Next.js app with Tailwind and shadcn UI

<Note>
    The development server runs on port 3000 as soon as the sandbox is ready.
</Note>

<CodeGroup>
```typescript JavaScript & TypeScript
// template.ts
import { Template, waitForPort } from 'e2b'

export const template = Template()
  .fromNodeImage('21-slim')
  .setWorkdir('/home/user/nextjs-app')
  .runCmd(
    'npx create-next-app@14.2.30 . --ts --tailwind --no-eslint --import-alias "@/*" --use-npm --no-app --no-src-dir'
  )
  .runCmd('npx shadcn@2.1.7 init -d')
  .runCmd('npx shadcn@2.1.7 add --all')
  .runCmd(
    'mv /home/user/nextjs-app/* /home/user/ && rm -rf /home/user/nextjs-app'
  )
  .setWorkdir('/home/user')
  .setStartCmd('npx next --turbo', waitForURL('http://localhost:3000'))
```

```python Python
# template.py
from e2b import Template, wait_for_url

template = (
    Template()
    .from_node_image("21-slim")
    .set_workdir("/home/user/nextjs-app")
    .run_cmd(
        'npx create-next-app@14.2.30 . --ts --tailwind --no-eslint --import-alias "@/*" --use-npm --no-app --no-src-dir'
    )
    .run_cmd("npx shadcn@2.1.7 init -d")
    .run_cmd("npx shadcn@2.1.7 add --all")
    .run_cmd("mv /home/user/nextjs-app/* /home/user/ && rm -rf /home/user/nextjs-app")
    .set_workdir("/home/user")
    .set_start_cmd("npx next --turbo", wait_for_url('http://localhost:3000'))
)
```
</CodeGroup>

<CodeGroup>
```typescript JavaScript & TypeScript
// build.ts
import { Template, defaultBuildLogger } from 'e2b'
import { template as nextJSTemplate } from './template'

Template.build(nextJSTemplate, {
  alias: 'nextjs-app',
  cpuCount: 4,
  memoryMB: 4096,
  onBuildLogs: defaultBuildLogger(),
})
```

```python Python
# build.py
from e2b import Template, default_build_logger
from .template import template as nextjsTemplate

Template.build(nextjsTemplate,
    alias="nextjs-app",
    cpu_count=4,
    memory_mb=4096,
    on_build_logs=default_build_logger(),
)
```
</CodeGroup>
