docs/sandbox-template/ready-cmd.mdx, before:

---
title: "Ready Command"
sidebarTitle: Ready command
---

The ready command allows you to specify a command that will determine **template sandbox** readiness before a [snapshot](/docs/sandbox-template#how-it-works) is created.
It is executed in an infinite loop until it returns a successful **exit code&nbsp;0**.
This way you can control how long should we wait for the [start command](/docs/sandbox-template/start-cmd) or any system state.


## How to add ready command

When you are building a sandbox template you can specify the ready command by using the [`--ready-cmd`](https://e2b.dev/docs/sdk-reference/cli/v1.5.0/template#e2b-template-build) option:

```bash
e2b template build --ready-cmd "<your-ready-command>"
```

### Sandbox template config
You can specify the ready command inside the `e2b.toml` in the same directory where you run `e2b template build`.
<CodeGroup isFileName title="e2b.toml" isRunnable={false}>
  ```toml e2b.toml highlight={5}
  # This is a config for E2B sandbox template
  template_id = "1wdqsf9le9gk21ztb4mo"
  dockerfile = "e2b.Dockerfile"
  template_name = "my-agent-sandbox"
  ready_cmd = "<your-ready-command>"
  ```
</CodeGroup>

## Default values
By default, the ready command is set to `sleep 0`, which means the sandbox template will be ready immediatelly.
If the [start command](/docs/sandbox-template/start-cmd) is defined, the default is set to `sleep 20`, which means that the template sandbox will wait for 20 seconds before taking the snapshot.

## Examples
Here are some examples of the ready command you can use.

### Wait for URL to return 200 status code
```bash
ready_cmd = 'curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}" http://localhost:3000 | grep -q "200"'
```

### Wait for a specific process to start
```bash
ready_cmd = 'pgrep my-process-name > /dev/null'
```

### Wait for a file to exist
```bash
ready_cmd = '[ -f /tmp/ready.flag ]'
```

Commit message:

feat: add build system legacy docs warning (#28)

docs/sandbox-template/ready-cmd.mdx, after:

---
title: "Ready Command"
sidebarTitle: Ready command
---

import LegacyWarningBuildSystem from "/snippets/LegacyWarningBuildSystem.mdx";

<LegacyWarningBuildSystem/>

The ready command allows you to specify a command that will determine **template sandbox** readiness before a [snapshot](/docs/sandbox-template#how-it-works) is created.
It is executed in an infinite loop until it returns a successful **exit code&nbsp;0**.
This way you can control how long should we wait for the [start command](/docs/sandbox-template/start-cmd) or any system state.


## How to add ready command

When you are building a sandbox template you can specify the ready command by using the [`--ready-cmd`](https://e2b.dev/docs/sdk-reference/cli/v1.5.0/template#e2b-template-build) option:

```bash
e2b template build --ready-cmd "<your-ready-command>"
```

### Sandbox template config
You can specify the ready command inside the `e2b.toml` in the same directory where you run `e2b template build`.
<CodeGroup isFileName title="e2b.toml" isRunnable={false}>
  ```toml e2b.toml highlight={5}
  # This is a config for E2B sandbox template
  template_id = "1wdqsf9le9gk21ztb4mo"
  dockerfile = "e2b.Dockerfile"
  template_name = "my-agent-sandbox"
  ready_cmd = "<your-ready-command>"
  ```
</CodeGroup>

## Default values
By default, the ready command is set to `sleep 0`, which means the sandbox template will be ready immediately.
If the [start command](/docs/sandbox-template/start-cmd) is defined, the default is set to `sleep 20`, which means that the template sandbox will wait for 20 seconds before taking the snapshot.

## Examples
Here are some examples of the ready command you can use.

### Wait for URL to return 200 status code
```bash
ready_cmd = 'curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}" http://localhost:3000 | grep -q "200"'
```

### Wait for a specific process to start
```bash
ready_cmd = 'pgrep my-process-name > /dev/null'
```

### Wait for a file to exist
```bash
ready_cmd = '[ -f /tmp/ready.flag ]'
```
