docs/migration/v2.mdx, before:

---
title: "SDK v2 Migration Guide"
---

This guide helps you migrate from E2B SDK v1 to v2, covering all breaking changes and new patterns.

## Table of contents

SDK v2 introduces several important changes:
- [**New creation pattern in Python Synchronous SDK**](#1-sandbox-creation-in-synchronous-python-sdk)
- [**Secure by default**](#2-secure-communication-by-default)
- [**Updated file operations in Python SDK**](#3-file-writing-in-python-sdk)
- [**Updated list method**](#4-listing-sandboxes)

## Breaking changes

### 1. Sandbox creation in synchronous Python SDK

In v2, the synchronous Python SDK uses a class method `create()` instead of the constructor `Sandbox()`.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from e2b_code_interpreter import Sandbox

sandbox = Sandbox.create()
sandbox = Sandbox.create(template="base")
```
</CodeGroup>

In the v1, you would instantiate directly:

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from e2b_code_interpreter import Sandbox

sandbox = Sandbox()
sandbox = Sandbox(template="base")
```
</CodeGroup>

### 2. Secure communication by default

Sandboxes are now **secure by default**. That means you cannot access the sandbox controller directly via its URL without authentication header.
SDK handles authentication header for you automatically.

For custom templates created before envd `v0.2.0`, you need to rebuild the templates to enable secure communication,
otherwise you will receive error messages when creating sandboxes.

You can temporarily disable secure communication by setting `secure` to `false` during sandbox creation, but this is not recommended for production use.

<CodeGroup>
```js JavaScript & TypeScript
import { Sandbox } from '@e2b/code-interpreter'

const sandbox = await Sandbox.create({ secure: false }) // Explicitly disable
```

```python Python
from e2b_code_interpreter import Sandbox

sandbox = Sandbox.create(secure=False)  # Explicitly disable
```
</CodeGroup>

Check more details in the [secured access documentation](/docs/sandbox/secured-access).

### 3. File writing in Python SDK

The file writing API in Python has been made more consistent.

In v2, use `sandbox.files.write()` for single files and `sandbox.files.write_files()` for multiple files:
<CodeGroup>
```python v2
from e2b_code_interpreter import Sandbox

sandbox = Sandbox.create()

# Write single file
info = sandbox.files.write("/tmp/file.txt", "content")

# Write multiple files
infos = sandbox.files.write_files([
    {"path": "/tmp/file1.txt", "data": "content1"},
    {"path": "/tmp/file2.txt", "data": "content2"}
])
```
</CodeGroup>

In v1, the same `write()` method was overloaded for both single and multiple files:

<CodeGroup>
```python v1
from e2b_code_interpreter import Sandbox

sandbox = Sandbox.create()

# Write single file
info = sandbox.write(path="/tmp/file.txt", data="content")

# Write multiple files
infos = sandbox.write([
    {"path": "/tmp/file1.txt", "data": "content1"},
    {"path": "/tmp/file2.txt", "data": "content2"}
])
```
</CodeGroup>

### 4. Listing sandboxes

The method for listing sandboxes has been updated to use pagination.

<CodeGroup>
```js JavaScript & TypeScript
import { Sandbox, SandboxInfo } from '@e2b/code-interpreter'

// Get paginator
const paginator = Sandbox.list()

// Iterate through all sandboxes
for (const sandbox of await paginator.nextItems()) {
    console.log(sandbox.sandboxId)
}

// Iterate through all sandboxes
const allSandboxes: SandboxInfo[] = []
while (paginator.hasNext) {
    const items = await paginator.nextItems()
    allSandboxes.push(...items)
}

// With query
const queryPaginator = Sandbox.list({query: {metadata: {key: "value"}}})
```
```python Python
from e2b_code_interpreter import Sandbox, SandboxQuery

# Get paginator
paginator = Sandbox.list()

# Iterate through all sandboxes
while paginator.has_next:
    sandboxes = paginator.next_items()
    print(sandboxes)

# With query
paginator = Sandbox.list(query=SandboxQuery(metadata={"key": "value"}))
```
</CodeGroup>

Commit message:

Mention where to find envd version

docs/migration/v2.mdx, after:

---
title: "SDK v2 Migration Guide"
---

This guide helps you migrate from E2B SDK v1 to v2, covering all breaking changes and new patterns.

## Table of contents

SDK v2 introduces several important changes:
- [**New creation pattern in Python Synchronous SDK**](#1-sandbox-creation-in-synchronous-python-sdk)
- [**Secure by default**](#2-secure-communication-by-default)
- [**Updated file operations in Python SDK**](#3-file-writing-in-python-sdk)
- [**Updated list method**](#4-listing-sandboxes)

## Breaking changes

### 1. Sandbox creation in synchronous Python SDK

In v2, the synchronous Python SDK uses a class method `create()` instead of the constructor `Sandbox()`.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from e2b_code_interpreter import Sandbox

sandbox = Sandbox.create()
sandbox = Sandbox.create(template="base")
```
</CodeGroup>

In the v1, you would instantiate directly:

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from e2b_code_interpreter import Sandbox

sandbox = Sandbox()
sandbox = Sandbox(template="base")
```
</CodeGroup>

### 2. Secure communication by default

Sandboxes are now **secure by default**. That means you cannot access the sandbox controller directly via its URL without authentication header.
SDK handles authentication header for you automatically.

For custom templates created before envd `v0.2.0`, you need to rebuild the templates to enable secure communication,
otherwise you will receive error messages when creating sandboxes. You can check template envd version via `e2b template list` command or templates list in dashboard.

You can temporarily disable secure communication by setting `secure` to `false` during sandbox creation, but this is not recommended for production use.

<CodeGroup>
```js JavaScript & TypeScript
import { Sandbox } from '@e2b/code-interpreter'

const sandbox = await Sandbox.create({ secure: false }) // Explicitly disable
```

```python Python
from e2b_code_interpreter import Sandbox

sandbox = Sandbox.create(secure=False)  # Explicitly disable
```
</CodeGroup>

Check more details in the [secured access documentation](/docs/sandbox/secured-access).

### 3. File writing in Python SDK

The file writing API in Python has been made more consistent.

In v2, use `sandbox.files.write()` for single files and `sandbox.files.write_files()` for multiple files:
<CodeGroup>
```python v2
from e2b_code_interpreter import Sandbox

sandbox = Sandbox.create()

# Write single file
info = sandbox.files.write("/tmp/file.txt", "content")

# Write multiple files
infos = sandbox.files.write_files([
    {"path": "/tmp/file1.txt", "data": "content1"},
    {"path": "/tmp/file2.txt", "data": "content2"}
])
```
</CodeGroup>

In v1, the same `write()` method was overloaded for both single and multiple files:

<CodeGroup>
```python v1
from e2b_code_interpreter import Sandbox

sandbox = Sandbox.create()

# Write single file
info = sandbox.write(path="/tmp/file.txt", data="content")

# Write multiple files
infos = sandbox.write([
    {"path": "/tmp/file1.txt", "data": "content1"},
    {"path": "/tmp/file2.txt", "data": "content2"}
])
```
</CodeGroup>

### 4. Listing sandboxes

The method for listing sandboxes has been updated to use pagination.

<CodeGroup>
```js JavaScript & TypeScript
import { Sandbox, SandboxInfo } from '@e2b/code-interpreter'

// Get paginator
const paginator = Sandbox.list()

// Iterate through all sandboxes
for (const sandbox of await paginator.nextItems()) {
    console.log(sandbox.sandboxId)
}

// Iterate through all sandboxes
const allSandboxes: SandboxInfo[] = []
while (paginator.hasNext) {
    const items = await paginator.nextItems()
    allSandboxes.push(...items)
}

// With query
const queryPaginator = Sandbox.list({query: {metadata: {key: "value"}}})
```
```python Python
from e2b_code_interpreter import Sandbox, SandboxQuery

# Get paginator
paginator = Sandbox.list()

# Iterate through all sandboxes
while paginator.has_next:
    sandboxes = paginator.next_items()
    print(sandboxes)

# With query
paginator = Sandbox.list(query=SandboxQuery(metadata={"key": "value"}))
```
</CodeGroup>
